We collected data on 6 stocks and the Shanghai Composite Index from 2021 to April 2023, conducted a data quality check and analyzed each stock individually.

Using a market-neutral strategy, we selected 4 stocks from 2 industries to construct a portfolio, and carried out both long and short positions with a backtesting process. By comparing the basic metadata indicators and exploring the derived analysis based on the closing prices of the investment portfolio, we drew the following conclusions:

1. The average market value of the investment portfolio is low, which is flexible and suitable for short-term trading with higher potential returns. Investors can pay attention to the trend of changes in the total market value, and prioritize investing in targets with declining trends.
2. The average turnover rate of the investment portfolio is high, which indicates high liquidity and is suitable for short-term trading with higher potential returns. When making adjustments to the portfolio, investors can pay attention to whether the turnover rate is increasing, as a rising market sentiment is beneficial for short-term gains.
3. The comparison of the price-to-earnings ratio and price-to-book ratio across industries is not very meaningful and is related to the valuation benchmark of the industry during the same period. Investors should not blindly assume that a specific value of P/E or P/B will be linked to higher returns, nor should they use historical experience or cross-industry comparisons for these two indicators.
4. The investment portfolio's return does not depend on the correlation of stock prices, and generally speaking, the correlation coefficient of stock prices within the same industry is higher than that between different industries. The investment portfolio's return does not depend on the similarity of price fluctuation patterns, and the similarity of price fluctuation patterns within the same industry is higher than that between different industries. Investors can prioritize paired combinations of stocks that are in the same industry and have internal logic.
5. The goodness of fit (residual variance) of the inter-regression of stock prices within the investment portfolio is related to the final return. The robustness of the regression ensures the model's availability in the future and reduces the risk of capital loss caused by model failure for investors.
6. Investment portfolios that passed the cointegration test were more likely to achieve high backtesting returns with the combination strategy. Stocks with stable linear relationships have mean reversion characteristics and are suitable for paired trading. Investors can optimize their capital allocation using this property, and take advantage of the benefits of a market-neutral strategy.